README.md, before:

# :crab: RUST PROJECT TEMPLATE - TODO(template) PUT PROJECT NAME HERE
<!--`TODO(template) update each badge with your username and repository name.`-->
[![Docs](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/docs.yml)
[![Lint](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/linter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/linter.yml)
[![Build](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/build-and-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/build-and-test.yml)
[![Dependencies](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/dependency-audit.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/dependency-audit.yml)
[![UB](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/ub-detection.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/ub-detection.yml)
[![Coverage](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/coverage.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/coverage.yml)
<!-- You can replace them with a single badge if you create a main CI file that calls the other workflows
[![CI](https://github.com/{{USERNAME}}/{{REPOSITORY}}/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/{{USERNAME}}/{{REPOSITORY}}/actions)
-->
<!--`TODO(template) update with your rust version`
If you want to change from stable to Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV), replace the badge with:
![MSRV](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.70+-ab6000.svg) TODO(template) update specific version
-->
![Rust](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-stable-orange.svg)
<!--`TODO(template) update license version if needed. Check LICENSE first`-->
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
<!--`TODO(template) update with your crate information. Remove if not needed.`-->
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/{{CRATE_NAME}}.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/{{CRATE_NAME}})
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/{{CRATE_NAME}}/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/{{CRATE_NAME}})

TODO(template) describe the project

## TODO(template) - rust template usage (remove this section after setup)

This is a rust template from ZKE team :rocket: (a focus on cryptographic libs in sync Rust).

:bike: To use it - find `TODO(template)` over the repository and set appropriate values.

- [ ] Settings -> Collaborators and teams - add your team group as admins for the repo (e.g. [zk-engineering](https://github.com/orgs/NethermindEth/teams/zk-engineering))
- [ ] Settings -> General -> Pull Requests - allow only `Allow squash merging`, also tick `Automatically delete head branches`
- [ ] Settings -> Pages -> Build and deployment -> Source Github Actions
- [ ] Update the description of the repo at the repo's page, add tag topics
- [ ] Introduce necessary sections at the repo's page (releases, deployments etc)
- [ ] Add a website url (if applicable) or a docs page (see [docs](./.github/workflows/docs.yml) flow for public repos)
- [ ] Add [all contributors](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/cli/installation)
- [ ] Import protection rulesets (see below) in the repo settings (Settings -> Rules -> Rulesets -> Import a ruleset)
- [ ] For binary crates with specific requirements to Rust features consider also [pinning](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html#the-toolchain-file) the rust toolchain version

Main branch protection

```json
{
  "id": 4981961,
  "name": "Main protection",
  "target": "branch",
  "source_type": "Repository",
  "source": "NethermindEth/rust-template",
  "enforcement": "active",
  "conditions": {
    "ref_name": {
      "exclude": [],
      "include": [
        "~DEFAULT_BRANCH"
      ]
    }
  },
  "rules": [
    {
      "type": "deletion"
    },
    {
      "type": "non_fast_forward"
    },
    {
      "type": "required_deployments",
      "parameters": {
        "required_deployment_environments": []
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "required_signatures"
    },
    {
      "type": "pull_request",
      "parameters": {
        "required_approving_review_count": 1,
        "dismiss_stale_reviews_on_push": false,
        "require_code_owner_review": false,
        "require_last_push_approval": false,
        "required_review_thread_resolution": true,
        "automatic_copilot_code_review_enabled": false,
        "allowed_merge_methods": [
          "merge",
          "squash",
          "rebase"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "bypass_actors": []
}
```

Signed commits

```json
{
  "id": 4982030,
  "name": "Signed commits",
  "target": "branch",
  "source_type": "Repository",
  "source": "NethermindEth/rust-template",
  "enforcement": "active",
  "conditions": {
    "ref_name": {
      "exclude": [],
      "include": [
        "~ALL"
      ]
    }
  },
  "rules": [
    {
      "type": "required_signatures"
    }
  ],
  "bypass_actors": []
}
```

## How to use

To generate a new project from this template, you need to install [cargo-generate](https://github.com/cargo-generate/cargo-generate) and run:

```sh
cargo install cargo-generate

cargo generate --git https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template
```

## Examples

See [examples](./examples/).

## License

TODO(template) - update [license](https://www.notion.so/nethermind/Open-Source-Software-Usage-and-Licensing-Policy-1c3360fc38d080fd9e61c29b35d1d5af) if needed.
For commercial licenses it is required to get an approve from Legal.

Apache 2.0

## Would like to contribute?

see [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

exclude gh workflows from cargo generate substitution

README.md, after:

# :crab: RUST PROJECT TEMPLATE - TODO(template) PUT PROJECT NAME HERE
<!--`TODO(template) update each badge with your username and repository name.`-->
[![Docs](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/docs.yml)
[![Lint](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/linter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/linter.yml)
[![Build](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/build-and-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/build-and-test.yml)
[![Dependencies](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/dependency-audit.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/dependency-audit.yml)
[![UB](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/ub-detection.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/ub-detection.yml)
[![Coverage](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/coverage.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template/actions/workflows/coverage.yml)
<!-- You can replace them with a single badge if you create a main CI file that calls the other workflows
[![CI](https://github.com/{{USERNAME}}/{{REPOSITORY}}/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/{{USERNAME}}/{{REPOSITORY}}/actions)
-->
<!--`TODO(template) update with your rust version`
If you want to change from stable to Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV), replace the badge with:
![MSRV](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.70+-ab6000.svg) TODO(template) update specific version
-->
![Rust](https://img.shields.io/badge/rust-stable-orange.svg)
<!--`TODO(template) update license version if needed. Check LICENSE first`-->
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
<!--`TODO(template) update with your crate information. Remove if not needed.`-->
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/{{CRATE_NAME}}.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/{{CRATE_NAME}})
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/{{CRATE_NAME}}/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/{{CRATE_NAME}})

TODO(template) describe the project

## TODO(template) - rust template usage (remove this section after setup)

This is a rust template from ZKE team :rocket: (a focus on cryptographic libs in sync Rust).

:bike: To use it - find `TODO(template)` over the repository and set appropriate values.

- [ ] Settings -> Collaborators and teams - add your team group as admins for the repo (e.g. [zk-engineering](https://github.com/orgs/NethermindEth/teams/zk-engineering))
- [ ] Settings -> General -> Pull Requests - allow only `Allow squash merging`, also tick `Automatically delete head branches`
- [ ] Settings -> Pages -> Build and deployment -> Source Github Actions
- [ ] Update the description of the repo at the repo's page, add tag topics
- [ ] Introduce necessary sections at the repo's page (releases, deployments etc)
- [ ] Add a website url (if applicable) or a docs page (see [docs](./.github/workflows/docs.yml) flow for public repos)
- [ ] Add [all contributors](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/cli/installation)
- [ ] Import protection rulesets (see below) in the repo settings (Settings -> Rules -> Rulesets -> Import a ruleset)
- [ ] For binary crates with specific requirements to Rust features consider also [pinning](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html#the-toolchain-file) the rust toolchain version

Main branch protection

```json
{
  "id": 4981961,
  "name": "Main protection",
  "target": "branch",
  "source_type": "Repository",
  "source": "NethermindEth/rust-template",
  "enforcement": "active",
  "conditions": {
    "ref_name": {
      "exclude": [],
      "include": [
        "~DEFAULT_BRANCH"
      ]
    }
  },
  "rules": [
    {
      "type": "deletion"
    },
    {
      "type": "non_fast_forward"
    },
    {
      "type": "required_deployments",
      "parameters": {
        "required_deployment_environments": []
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "required_signatures"
    },
    {
      "type": "pull_request",
      "parameters": {
        "required_approving_review_count": 1,
        "dismiss_stale_reviews_on_push": false,
        "require_code_owner_review": false,
        "require_last_push_approval": false,
        "required_review_thread_resolution": true,
        "automatic_copilot_code_review_enabled": false,
        "allowed_merge_methods": [
          "merge",
          "squash",
          "rebase"
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "bypass_actors": []
}
```

Signed commits

```json
{
  "id": 4982030,
  "name": "Signed commits",
  "target": "branch",
  "source_type": "Repository",
  "source": "NethermindEth/rust-template",
  "enforcement": "active",
  "conditions": {
    "ref_name": {
      "exclude": [],
      "include": [
        "~ALL"
      ]
    }
  },
  "rules": [
    {
      "type": "required_signatures"
    }
  ],
  "bypass_actors": []
}
```

## How to use

Either with "Use this template" green button on Github or, in case of using another git hosting service (or have to avoid referencing this repository), you can use [cargo-generate](https://github.com/cargo-generate/cargo-generate).

```sh
cargo install cargo-generate

cargo generate --git https://github.com/NethermindEth/rust-template
```

## Examples

See [examples](./examples/).

## License

TODO(template) - update [license](https://www.notion.so/nethermind/Open-Source-Software-Usage-and-Licensing-Policy-1c3360fc38d080fd9e61c29b35d1d5af) if needed.
For commercial licenses it is required to get an approve from Legal.

Apache 2.0

## Would like to contribute?

see [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
